Post Title: Turning an Editor PC into a Proxmox Cluster for Editing and Streaming VMs.
Author: Enigma_0001
Score: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/1e9eh2k/turning_an_editor_pc_into_a_proxmox_cluster_for/
Number of comments: 7
Created UTC: 2024-07-22 13:35:59

Post Content:
Hey everyone,

So as the title states, I want to turn my editing pc into a promox cluster to house an editing and/or streaming vm which I can turn on and off at any given time. I currently own a homelab which runs proxmox but is not really equipped to handle anything graphic related but more to handle automation tasks or even host files (TrueNas).

The idea behind this setup is quite straight forward, I want to have a dual pc streaming setup that I can simply turn on and off at any given time. This means capturing video from my main pc to the streaming vm and the same being done with audio.

I am however very hesitant regarding this decision since I am not sure how much this can be a problem for me. Can Proxmox handle such a setup? How will i manage the power costs if I leave another pc running 24/7? Will i get any performance issues when issue such a setup?...

It would really help to know if anyone has attempted such an approach and what your experiences have been  so far with it.



Top 2 comments:
Comment 1:
  Author: 1WeekNotice
  Comment: &gt;I want to turn my editing pc into a promox cluster to house an editing and/or streaming vm which I can turn on and off at any given time

Note that a cluster involves a group of PCs not a single one. It sounds like you just want proxmox to host many VMs?

&gt;The idea behind this setup is quite straight forward, I want to have a dual pc streaming setup that I can simply turn on and off at any given time. This means capturing video from my main pc to the streaming vm and the same being done with audio.

Can you clarify this a bit more? Maybe give a specific example. 

It sounds like you just want to remote desktop into a PC. Do you have many VMs that you want to have access to? What are the differences between these VMs vs having everything done on your editor PC? I assume the 24/7 hour uptime. 

You mentioned two use cases

- Editing
- Steaming

Why can't this be done on a single PC, why do you need two VMs for this?  Unless many people need to access this PC?

&gt;How will i manage the power costs if I leave another pc running 24/7?

You can also look into the possibility of moving the parts from your editor PC into your current proxmox PC(or the other way around ) so you don't have two machines running.
  Score: 1
  Created UTC: 2024-07-22 14:12:38

Comment 2:
  Author: ElevenNotes
  Comment: &gt;  I want to turn my editing pc into a promox cluster

A cluster is a collection of compute devices, not a single compute device.


&gt; to house an editing and/or streaming vm which I can turn on and off at any given time

This sounds more like you want to install VMware Workstation (its free) and use a VM on your Windows desktop.

&gt; The idea behind this setup is quite straight forward, I want to have a dual pc streaming setup that I can simply turn on and off at any given time. 

What’s wrong with PCIe capture cards?
  Score: 0
  Created UTC: 2024-07-22 13:48:11

Note: This post has only 2 comments at the time of scraping.
