Post Title: Minimal effort Plex self hosted local access only setup
Author: classified_x
Score: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/1e7mr2p/minimal_effort_plex_self_hosted_local_access_only/
Number of comments: 4
Created UTC: 2024-07-20 03:54:34

Post Content:
Hi

  
I have some spare PCs here and I would like to move my media away from my main computer.

  
Ideally, I'd be able to watch it via Plex or browse through the directories of the HDs somehow and watch from my main PC.

  
Security on my main PC is a must. I don't want remote access, just local Wifi Lan Access. What is the best and most secure way to achive this?

  
Would use Ubuntu on the server and Windows on main PC

Top 3 comments:
Comment 1:
  Author: ElevenNotes
  Comment: - Install Alpine Linux (read-only mode from USB)
- Install Docker
- Run Plex container
- Profit
  Score: 3
  Created UTC: 2024-07-20 04:26:22

Comment 2:
  Author: bababradford
  Comment: why do you need plex if its just local access?

Plex does not allow you to browse through the directories of the HD. .If thats what you want just use VLC and access your files over your local network

With Plex have to assign specific libraries to specific folders you have mapped out, and data has to be sorted a specific way to be properly recognized and added to your library
  Score: 3
  Created UTC: 2024-07-20 15:00:31

Comment 3:
  Author: 1WeekNotice
  Comment: - any linux OS (Ubuntu is fine)
- install docker
- install Plex docker image

&gt;Security on my main PC is a must

Not sure what you mean by this. The Plex server will be on the Ubuntu machine, so if you are worried about a machine being unsecured, it would be the server not the client. Because the server is exposing the ports (internally in your network)

If you aren't exposing ports to the Internet, then there is typically nothing to be considered about. 

If you want to safe guard against MIM attacks then you can use https by adding a reverse proxy but then you would need to use an external DNS (or internal)

[Reference video for external DNS](https://youtu.be/qlcVx-k-02E?si=uf6Pg8rkNCgtoVdu) but once again this is more of a concern if you have any ports open on your router. If you don't then there is no way to get inside your network. 

Hope that helps.
  Score: 1
  Created UTC: 2024-07-20 20:02:00

Note: This post has only 3 comments at the time of scraping.
