Post Title: Sophos Firewall vs Unifi UDM 
Author: fabio_teixei
Score: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/1eaop3x/sophos_firewall_vs_unifi_udm/
Number of comments: 3
Created UTC: 2024-07-24 01:09:53

Post Content:
I have an Unifi UDM that was my main router and firewall. A while ago I left the UDM as only my Unifi controller and I purchased a mini PC an put Sophos XG (at the time) to be my main router/firewall.
The goal was to use the SSL inspection feature of Sophos to manage/control the internet usage on my home. I wanted for instance to be able to read https packets to block shorts on YouTube or Reels on instagram without block the whole app.

On web browsers that works great but on the apps, because of SSL cert pinning, that does not work at all, even if I put my router root cert on the devices, the apps bypass and uses the pinned certificate and the app stops working.

Deal with certificates is a pain as well, because is for my home use and I don't have corporate solutions like Intune or other MDM to push certificates to mobile devices, so I need to send manually the certificate to each device and install it manually. iPhone is a pain on the butt for this part.

So in short, Sophos Firewall (no longer XG) use case is ever diminished for me. The question is. Should I ditch Sophos completely and get back to UDM as my firewall, os should I stick with Sophos?

What are your thoughts?

PS.: For now going with PFSense or OPNSense is not an option, to keep an enterprise grade firewall I will stick with Sophos because I like it better than PFSense and OPNSense. The question is really about Sophos vs Unifi.

Top 1 comments:
Comment 1:
  Author: ovizii
  Comment: If "The goal was to use the SSL inspection feature of Sophos " was your only reason for using it, and its not fulfilling your expectations, ditch it.

If you are using other features of the Sophos FW keep it.
  Score: 1
  Created UTC: 2024-07-24 07:17:40

Note: This post has only 1 comments at the time of scraping.
