Post Title: My backup concept - opinions?
Author: heeelga
Score: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/1e6a74c/my_backup_concept_opinions/
Number of comments: 9
Created UTC: 2024-07-18 12:28:45

Post Content:
Hi,

backup concepts should be reviewed from time to time. I would like to get your opinion.

Should I alter my schedule or add more backup destinations? Is there something to improve? What is your backup plan?

My setup is as follows:

* 2 Proxmox nodes (not running in a cluster atm as HA gave me more problems than profit) with about 20 lxc containers and 2 vms.
* Main Synology Nas (DS1821+) with 7 HDDs right now, configured as RAID5. Planning to add another HDD as this odd number is triggering me haha. 2 x NVMes running a RAID0 configuration as second storage (just for Proxmox and Lancache)
* Backup NAS DS2415+ with 10HDDs installed, configured as RAID5 also. I'm planning to install it as offsite-backup at my fathers basement and connect via Tailscale VPN. I've done this before but my internet connection was poor and backups took forever. Luckily this has changed dramatically.

Backup configuration:

* Photos from my iPhone are backed up via Immich immediately (Immich lxc on Proxmox, storage on main NAS) -&gt; storage is backed up once a week to my backup NAS via Synology HyperBackup ("intelligent retention policy", 256 verisons max.). NAS is turned off afterwards.
* My Synology Home folder is backed up once a week via HyperBackup to my second NAS. I also do monthly backups of this folder to an external HDD (encrypted) and place it at my office for a month.
* lxc containers and vms are backed up daily via PBS to my main NAS. Retention policy is set to keep 1 daily, 2 weekly and 1 monthly -&gt; this is also backed up again to my backup NAS once a week via HyperBackup.
* My advanced collection of Linux ISOs is not backed up... can't afford another storage with 50+TB right now.
* I just backup the user directory of my Windows PC via Genie Timeline to my main NAS as there are mainly only games installed.
* Macbook Pro is irregularly backed up via Thunderbolt 4 SSD (TimeMachine). Not much valuable data here also.

PS: If you're using Bitwarden, do you have any backups or is backing up the lxc container enough?

Top 6 comments:
Comment 1:
  Author: Unlucky-Message8866
  Comment: hell is my backup plan
  Score: 3
  Created UTC: 2024-07-18 12:41:57

Comment 2:
  Author: Neldonado
  Comment: I pay for small cloud storage for backups of irreplaceable things. Things like documents scanned via paperless ngx, pictures, config files, and anything else I couldn’t recreate with time. This is in addition to my backup server. In the event my house burned down I will at least know my essentials are safe.
  Score: 3
  Created UTC: 2024-07-18 14:59:46

Comment 3:
  Author: Whiplashorus
  Comment: Luck is my backup plan
  Score: 2
  Created UTC: 2024-07-18 14:46:53

Comment 4:
  Author: Qachmarre
  Comment: I had an issue last month - power loss made me a little scarred about half of my self-hosted infrastructure.  
My whole windows selfhosted stack is build with Active Directory and one domain controller only.  
I tough everything is good until I tried to login to Veeam to check if my backups are good and noticed that I can't login to. I immaditely tried to login to DC and check what happened- but no luck here as well. Fast login to proxmox- console connection to DC and found out that server failed to boot. Big breath and I started to finding out how much am f\*\*\*\*\*. Because I am storing my VM files on TrueNAS with help of ZFS via ISCSI one of volumes failed and whole VM was just dead.

There is whole story how did I managed to restore DC but at the end of the day I did it and I am really proud of lession I learnt.  
Guys, remember to have backup always- power backup, storage backup, backup of backup etc.  
It's a good lesson but afterwards I'd like to skip it  :D
  Score: 2
  Created UTC: 2024-07-18 17:48:39

Comment 5:
  Author: purepersistence
  Comment: &gt;If you're using Bitwarden...is backing up the lxc container enough?

What do you mean by "lxc container" for bitwarden? I run the [Standard Deployment](https://bitwarden.com/help/install-on-premise-linux/) in docker on linux. That automatically sets up rotating nightly backups of the sql database. It's up to you to [backup your docker volumes etc](https://bitwarden.com/help/backup-on-premise/).

But bitwarden being zero knowledge, I'm not comfortable having all my passwords stored in bitwarden so I can't get to them if I can't run bitwarden for some reason. So about once a month I run a batch file that uses the bitwarden CLI to store an unencrypted backup in a json file. The json goes to my veracrypt volume that I backup on and offsite and onto a usb stick.
  Score: 1
  Created UTC: 2024-07-19 11:19:44

Comment 6:
  Author: 2TAP2B
  Comment: Looks very redundant. Additional offsite storage would be good. 
Quick overview about my backup plan:
1 pve with several lxc and VM
All the lxc and vms backuped on a offsite PBS without the fileserver. 
Fileserver  / storage backup via borgmatic to offsite hetzner storage box
That's all, works quite nice for me.
  Score: 1
  Created UTC: 2024-07-20 20:16:59

Note: This post has only 6 comments at the time of scraping.
