Post Title: Pros and Cons of Waybar vs Quickshells ?
Author: GuyKage8
Score: 14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/archlinux/comments/1q1pj1r/pros_and_cons_of_waybar_vs_quickshells/
Number of comments: 11
Created UTC: 1767329554.0

Post Content:
So I just started my ricing journey in arch linux with hyprland. I came across two setups for the bars/widgets. Waybar or quickshells. Now I realise quickshell  is like tool that lets you create tools similar to your waybar and any number of tools like that using QML.

I saw all those sweet looking animations of various shells like noctia, celestia, dms, etc. and they look great. But my question is can those animations be implemented in a simple waybar+hyprland setup? What is the ram usage comparison of quickshell vs waybar ? Learning curve aside, what other things should I keep in mind?  
  



Top 5 comments:

Comment 1:
Author: scandii
Score: 18
Created UTC: 1767332488.0
Comment: quickshell is a toolkit written around qt quick which uses the markup language qml which is eerily similar to javascript.

the most famous product built on qt quick is (probably) kde plasma.

so with quickshell you're quite literally programming to get things done.

waybar on the other hand is a customisable software that allows you to customise prebuilt widgets and write your own within the definition of the software.

so if you want unlimited freedom and powah - quickshell.

if you want to work within the confines of waybar - waybar (or other similar competing products).

for clarification I think both are excellent offerings just targeting different audiences and needs.

note that waybar is "only" a panel bar - quickshell can be literally anything that requires a UI.

Comment 2:
Author: Sileniced
Score: 2
Created UTC: 1767358794.0
Comment: Waybar is reasonably easy to configure. And it's not infinitely configurable.

Quickshell is a framework to build your own components. You need to study QuickShell through Youtube or something.. follow extensive tutorials.. just to make something basic.

Comment 3:
Author: TroPixens
Score: 1
Created UTC: 1767369705.0
Comment: I’ve exclusively switched to quickshell for my bars. Because I find it easier for some reason. I think building every part is really nice. I’m Also building a big shell really slowly so when ever I can learn things I do. Compared to waybar they both work completely fine and have their own ups and downs. Quickshell is more difficult with farther customization and waybar is easier but with less customization

Comment 4:
Author: NeonVoidx
Score: 1
Created UTC: 1767372164.0
Comment: quickshell has no downsides other than learning it. but you can make bars like waybar, widgets, lock screens, app launchers etc

Comment 5:
Author: [deleted]
Score: 0
Created UTC: 1767339668.0
Comment: [deleted]