Post Title: How to Start Learning Data Structures?
Author: -Excitement-971
Score: 37
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/1plsjik/how_to_start_learning_data_structures/
Number of comments: 22
Created UTC: 1765651045.0

Post Content:
I’m looking to start learning data structures but I’m not sure where to begin. I’ve got the basics of coding down and feel comfortable solving Codewars challenges using loops, arrays, and if statements. Now, I want to take the next step and dive into data structures and Big O notation. I’d love to hear from anyone who’s gone through this. 

How did you learn data structures, and what approach worked best for you?


Top 5 comments:

Comment 1:
Author: fasta_guy88
Score: 18
Created UTC: 1765651979.0
Comment: Rather than trying to learn “data structures”, try exploring some problems (sorting and searching is a good start) that depend on data structures.  Data structures make much more sense in the context of solving a problem.

Comment 2:
Author: Blando-Cartesian
Score: 4
Created UTC: 1765653974.0
Comment: Implement a linked list and a binary tree, without looking up more than the core ideas. It’s a few simple functions each that make perfect sense after you figure them out by yourself.

Comment 3:
Author: EstablishmentIcy8725
Score: 2
Created UTC: 1765657681.0
Comment: Data structures are often called abstract, for one specific reason. They are not what they seem to be. Data (bits) is stored in memory slots, stacked one on top of the other. 

We make them behave the way we want them to behave (to solve a specific problem that demands said behaviour). A queue behaves in a circular way because that’s what we need to do, on the machine level there is no circular behaviour, like i sais, data is just stacked like books on a table.

To understand how do we create such behaviours out of memory slots and most importantly why, you need a low enough language to see what’s going under the hood, otherwise it will look like magic. 

So i recommend trying to implement them in C going from integers to graphs and trees. Moving to a high level language like python will be a piece of cake and you will be better than most who started there. 

I recommend the book Algorithmes in C, it is quite extensive, so don’t read in bulk and if you really need to know how the machine works, start with Introduction to computing systems, it is written by the creator of the LC-3, for educational purposes. 

Good luck to you.

Comment 4:
Author: JohnVonachen
Score: 2
Created UTC: 1765672122.0
Comment: Whatever your favorite language is, find a book on DS&amp;A for that language and do all the exercises.

Comment 5:
Author: aqua_regis
Score: 1
Created UTC: 1765651509.0
Comment: Not ultra cheap and only available for 2 days, but with a whole lot more than DSA: https://www.humblebundle.com/books/computer-science-fun-way-no-starch-books-encore