Post Title: No idea what to build as a beginner
Author: rdrivasar
Score: 35
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/1q52kbj/no_idea_what_to_build_as_a_beginner/
Number of comments: 20
Created UTC: 1767657499.0

Post Content:
What should I do if, besides not knowing anything about programming, I also don’t have any idea of what to work on to start learning programming? It’s like I’m completely blank about my own interests and on top of that it’s not even something I’m sure I like yet, I just want to try it and see if I enjoy it, but I’m scared that if I don’t like it, I won’t know what to do with my life.


Top 5 comments:

Comment 1:
Author: Achereto
Score: 21
Created UTC: 1767657854.0
Comment: 1. Ask some of your relatives if there was something they have to do regularly that is a mindless task and they whished they had a computer program for it.
2. Search the internet about that kind of tool for inspiration.
3. build it.

Comment 2:
Author: Ok_Wasabi4276
Score: 13
Created UTC: 1767657773.0
Comment: Start with something stupid simple like a calculator or a "guess the number" game - you'll know pretty quick if you hate it or not. Don't overthink the life direction thing, most of us just stumbled into this stuff anyway

Comment 3:
Author: DurianHorror5894
Score: 5
Created UTC: 1767658976.0
Comment: Start with basic console apps. My recommended path:
1) a calculator. Literally ask someone to input a number, input another number, and select an operation to perform, then return the result. Maybe do a slight expansion on it, like remembering the last result.

Then iteratively add a little bit of complexity.
2) a to-do list console app, that allows the user to write a to-do and saves it to a file so that the to-do exists on the next run. Also let the user mark off a to-do. Again, maybe extend it slightly, like allowing the user to view marked off to-dos.

3) now maybe you want a simple console app that gets data from an API, instead of a saved file. There's APIs for everything, pick a free one that interests you (many people choose a weather API, for me, it was a football one, maybe you want a recipe one) and output some information in the terminal. This is also particularly good because you have to read the APIs documentation

4) now you get to branch off what complexity you want to add. Maybe you want to figure out how to automate tasks. You could try and save data from the API above into a file at regular intervals. Maybe you want to add a graphical user interface, so you look up how to display the API data, which could mean in a web browser, or in a mobile app, or a desktop app, whatever interests you. Maybe you want to get data from multiple APIs and store it in a way that you can easily check what data you want, so you create a database that gets populated by various APIs.

Start with the commonly suggested ones, expand on them slightly, iteratively add a little bit of complexity you haven't tackled before for every project. What to build will kind of define itself by what you're enjoying/what complexity you can think of.

Comment 4:
Author: notislant
Score: 5
Created UTC: 1767658989.0
Comment: Honestly id recommend the odin project. Its pretty easy to build webapps with a UI. It even has you do some projects on your own. 

Course itself also has a discord and walks you through absolutely everything.

Lots of gamers make interactive game maps, resource calculator sites, trade sites, etc.

Pythons good for automating things, if games lack a basic feature I'll make a simple macro to drop things on one key press or find every junk item in an inventory to dump.

Comment 5:
Author: ItsAll2Random
Score: 3
Created UTC: 1767658361.0
Comment: I’m in the same boat. I really like Udemy though. Learning and doing at the same time. Hoping inspiration comes with knowledge.