Post Title: Am I not cut out for SWE?
Author: littlepail
Score: 98
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/1pufq0u/am_i_not_cut_out_for_swe/
Number of comments: 64
Created UTC: 1766554823.0

Post Content:
I am a SWE for 3 years at a “near big tech” company. I got in as a fresh grad and when tech was booming so the bar wasn’t very high. Felt that I got in by sheer luck. 

Academically, I’m not smart. I was generally a B-student back in CS college. But I did enjoy SWE mods like networks, distributed systems, or even learning algorithms. 

Over the past 3 years, my job has been rather chill and I don’t read outside of work. I didn’t learn much while doing frontend for 2 years - my code looks more or less the same because frontend frameworks are very abstracted at my company.

Now that I’m in my 3rd year without promotion, I’ve been looking for jobs. I’m terrible at Leetcode, not good at systems design, my problem-solving skills aren’t great either so I’ve been failing interviews here and there. Sometimes I get frontend interviews, which will test JavaScript or React or even HTML/CSS, where each language/framework has a lot of concepts to learn about. 

I feel that there’s endless to study for and I’m fighting against a bar that is high but I can’t even see where it is.

It’s been demoralising. I’ve moved into a backend team and I’m struggling hard. I have a difficult time grasping backend concepts, navigating backend code and understanding architectural designs. I’m lost 70% of the time during my team’s discussions. Everyone else is more senior than me, but they seem to know way more - it feels like that probably knew more than me when they were at 3 YOE. 

I have a difficult time visualising architectures or technical things when they’re discussing. I learn better when I dive into the code to build something. 
But it is inherently poor practise to dive into coding without understanding the requirements or the architecture or code itself, which causes me issues down the road. I think my lack of knowledge shows when I implement without understanding the full picture, but I have a difficult time following discussions.

As an engineer, I only like to code. I like it when requirements are clear. I don’t like the ambiguity of having to dig around and define the requirements or scoping problems. I only like to build stuff and see my product coming to life and working.

I think I should be studying harder for Leetcode, Systems design, and read more on whatever frameworks I’m using. 

But now I feel so exhausted just by the thought of studying. It feels endless. I feel that I’m a terrible engineer and that I’m paying the price of not working hard for the past few years. 



Top 5 comments:

Comment 1:
Author: Benand2
Score: 90
Created UTC: 1766555385.0
Comment: If you were terrible then surely they would have gotten you off the payroll by the three year mark. I enjoy the learning process and the figuring things out, did you not enjoy that when you started? What’s changed?

Comment 2:
Author: Comprehensive_Mud803
Score: 63
Created UTC: 1766557153.0
Comment: You have 2 solutions to your situation:

1: giving up and becoming a yak farmer in the Himalayas

2: read about software development and practice, practice, practice. 

Software engineering is more a matter of experience and knowledge acquired through practice and reading than being booksmart. 

Good luck.

Comment 3:
Author: exploradorobservador
Score: 33
Created UTC: 1766555635.0
Comment: Tech is tough because we need balance but we also want challenge and growth. There's nothing wrong with a 40 hour work week but sometimes PD is necessary. Thankfully we are in a craft where you can learn on your own and we don't have to do licensing.

You might know more than you think.

Comment 4:
Author: BKhalissi
Score: 18
Created UTC: 1766557112.0
Comment: There is nothing called endless, all you need is a solid roadmap and a plan to flick one domino after another, at the end you will see yourself doing more than you think, just get one thing done at a time.

Your case is a lot easier than people whose only experience is doing uni exams

Comment 5:
Author: poply
Score: 15
Created UTC: 1766562231.0
Comment: I had pretty bad imposter syndrome for the first 3-4 years at my first SWE job. Constantly felt like I was on the edge of being fired. Similar issues where I felt everyone knew more than me, constantly felt like tickets weren't fully scoped or properly defined, anxiety about my work, etc. I'm 7 years in and now I actually feel confident to know when to push back when my manager or more senior devs say things I disagree with (and allow them the opportunity to change my mind), or know when I have valuable input to provide. The amount of times I had a "stupid question" about design or architecture, and 4 out of the 5 people on my team had the same question are countless.

I don't know your specific background, but I didn't go to college and get a degree. So what I know, is that I very much prefer working as a software engineer than going back to unload trucks at walmart, cashiering at kmart, or working as a barista.

Ask yourself, if you knew more, if you felt more confident, would you still be asking whether you're cut out for SWE? If it's just a skill and confidence issue then that's where your focus should be. If however, you know being the most competent dev on the team wouldn't change a thing about how you feel, then consider if there's another area within tech that you may be more suited for.