Post Title: Be honest: what skills actually age well in programming?
Author: 5wimmlng
Score: 136
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/1pyu6e8/be_honest_what_skills_actually_age_well_in/
Number of comments: 112
Created UTC: 1767033362.0

Post Content:
Every year there’s a new “must-learn” stack. Every five years people swear *this time* it’s different. But most of us have seen hot tech cool off… fast.

So from real experience: What skills have actually paid off long-term for you?

Not tools. Not frameworks. I’m talking things that still matter after layoffs, hype cycles, and “AI will replace us” headlines.

Curious what survived reality.


Top 5 comments:

Comment 1:
Author: Ok_Butterscotch_7930
Score: 164
Created UTC: 1767033652.0
Comment: I'd say problem solving, coz that's what you are as a dev, a problem solver.

Comment 2:
Author: aqua_regis
Score: 63
Created UTC: 1767034082.0
Comment: Honestly: programming

Really, that's the only constant. Being able to analyze, dissect, and solve problems in an algorithmic step by step way that then can be implemented in a programming language is the single constant.

If one reaches that level of abstraction, languages, frameworks, libraries are of barely any relevance anymore and can be switched at will and new ones can be quickly learnt.

Comment 3:
Author: disposepriority
Score: 47
Created UTC: 1767039088.0
Comment: &gt;Every year there’s a new “must-learn” stack.

Yeah, on social media.

In reality, most developers just do their jobs, and their must learn stack is what their employer decides. 

Reading and internalizing information is S+ tier skill, fancy it even works outside of programming.

Comment 4:
Author: yummyjackalmeat
Score: 26
Created UTC: 1767035547.0
Comment: Knowing how to communicate clearly and more specifically **Adaptive Communication.**

Comment 5:
Author: shadow-battle-crab
Score: 16
Created UTC: 1767033856.0
Comment: The difficult part in programming is not building a thing, it is maintaining it long term.  The wisdom in how to organize parts of the program so they are maintainable is an art form you only can learn from experimentation and experience.

The other major component is project management.  Programs are long term projects.  The goals the project has on day one will not be the same goals the project has 1 year in.  New things happen, assumptions on what is important might change, and you need a cycle to manage this reality.  Waterfall strategy only works short term, agile strategy is what separates success stories from failures long term.  This is, again, something that comes with experience.

As far as what technologies survive long term?  Well, bash and linux scripting, javascript (specifically async), sql (on the administration and optimization side), and react state as a design pattern I feel are all key.  Linux in particular hasn't changed much since I learned the basics 20 years ago.

Good ideas will persist and better ideas will replace them over time.  This is just how it goes.  Nobody really knows what comes next.