Post Title: Stop thinking about what project is the best to learn or for your portfolio.
Author: YerayR14
Score: 25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/1px6y5g/stop_thinking_about_what_project_is_the_best_to/
Number of comments: 7
Created UTC: 1766865328.0

Post Content:
I have been in that place, scrolling infinitely looking for the best (if that even exist) project to learn/upskill/get hired/whatever, but today I have finally understood why people advice: "Find something that interest you". 

I understand the pressure of been unemployed, undergrad or still learning and wanting to build something that becomes the key to getting out of that situation.

I’m fortunate to have a job that combines IT support and some backend work. While it’s not as difficult as other situations, I still want to keep improving to reach better roles. And I’ve been there too. Day after day trying to figure out what to build to improve, and even so I believe the previous advice still applies.

So, what is that project that interest me so much and made me change my mind? Just a self-hosting e-book library. Sorry if I disappointed someone (I'm not). I got a Kindle a few weeks ago and since I also like home-labs and self-hosting I looked for an app, but every one feels like artificial and not personal, and as a book lover, I want my library to feel personal, something that I truly own, so I decided to build one.

You may think, what can an e-book library teach? Well, is not about the specific case of my app, but more of the concept/problem itself that needs to be implemented or solved that can be applied for many contexts. For example: what if an user have 5000 books? How should I store the covers vs basic metadata (cache vs database)? How can I process all that books in seconds (concurrency &amp; parallelism to improve performance)? How can I avoid the rate limits of an external api? How do I keep the database in sync if the user manually deletes a file? What if I implement an internal ddbb back up tool? Can I pass all the books from kindle to the library directly?

And even if I knew about some of that questions before, applying it yourself will always teach you more that just theory.

Some people will think that thinking about all that stuff early in the project may be over-engineering, but who cares, is your project you can do whatever you can with it according to your objectives, not someone else ideas. 

So thanks to everyone who has always given that advice, and for those who are in the situation I mentioned, it’s better to build a project that seems simple on the surface, but where you really dive deep than creating something that looks good on paper but you’re not invested in.


Top 3 comments:

Comment 1:
Author: Doommarine23
Score: 6
Created UTC: 1766871884.0
Comment: You're absolutely right. Building projects is just like drawing sketches, it is the only way we'll learn. Obviously bigger projects take longer, but they'll teach you more, just as refining a sketch, inking, coloring and shading it would. Programming is a "doing" activity like most other hobbies.

If someone reaches their limit of knowledge / skill while building the project? That is a good thing, that means you found an area to improve in!

Glad you found an idea that interested you, and I hope it has been a good learning experience for you.

Comment 2:
Author: greyspurv
Score: 2
Created UTC: 1766877139.0
Comment: The best projects are the one you actually finish lol

Comment 3:
Author: [deleted]
Score: 1
Created UTC: 1766874393.0
Comment: [removed]